[Music]
John Hammond and his bioengineering
company engine have created a theme park
called Jurassic Park on Isla Nublar a
Costa Rican island populated with cloned
dinosaurs after one of the dinosaur
handlers is killed by a velociraptor the
park's investors represented by lawyer
Donald Gennaro demand that experts visit
the park and certify it is safe
Gennaro invites mathematician and chaos
theorist Ian Malcolm while Hammond
invites paleontologist dr. Alan Grant
and paleobotanist dr. Ellie Sattler upon
arrival the group is stunned to see a
live Brachiosaurus at the parks visitor
center the group learned that the
cloning was accomplished by extracting
dinosaur DNA from mosquitoes that has
been preserved in amber DNA from frogs
was used to fill in gaps in the dinosaur
genomes to prevent breeding all the
dinosaurs were made female Malcolm
scoffs at the idea of such controlled
breeding declaring it will inevitably
break down the crew witnessed the birth
of a baby Raptor and visit the Raptor
enclosure during a luncheon the group
debates the ethics of cloning and the
creation of the park with dr. Malcolm
giving a harsh warning about the
implications of genetic engineering as a
whole the group is then joined by
Hammonds grandchildren Lex and Tim
Murphy for a tour of the park while
Hammond oversees the trip from the parks
control room the tour does not go as
planned with most of the dinosaurs
failing to appear and the group
encountering a sick Triceratops the tour
is cut short as a tropical storm
approaches Isla Nublar most of the park
employees evacuate on a boat to the
mainland
while the visitors return to their
electric tour vehicles except Sattler
who stays with the parks veterinarian to
study the Triceratops Jurassic park's
lead computer programmer Dennis Nedry
has been bribed by Dodgson a man working
for Hammonds corporate rival to steal
valuable fertilized embryos Nedry
deactivates the park security system to
gain access to the embryo storage room
where he stores the embryos inside a
canister disguised as Barbasol shaving
cream supplied by Dodgson because of a
Nedry the power goes out and the tour
vehicles become stuck most of the parks
electric fences are deactivated as well
allowing the Tyrannosaurus to escape and
attack the tour group grant Lex and Tim
escape while the Tyrannosaurus injures
Malcolm and devours Gennaro
on his way to deliver the embryos to the
islands docks Nedry becomes lost in the
rain crashes his Jeep Wrangler and is
killed by a Dilophosaurus Sadler assists
the parks
warden Robert Muldoon in a search for
survivors but they only find an injured
Malcolm before the Tyrannosaurus Returns
grant Tim and Lex take shelter in a
treetop later they discovered the broken
shells of dinosaur eggs grant conclude
that the dinosaurs have been breeding
which occurred because of their frog DNA
West African bullfrogs can change their
sex in a single-sex environment allowing
the dinosaurs to do so as well
proving Malcolm Wright unable to
decipher nedra's code to reactivate the
security system Hammond in the parks
chief engineer ray Arnold opted to
reboot the entire park system the group
shuts down the parks grid and retreats
to an emergency bunker while Arnold
heads to a maintenance shed to complete
the rebooting process when Arnold fails
to return Sattler and Muldoon head to
the shed they discover the shutdown has
deactivated the remaining fences and
released the Raptors Muldoon distract
the Raptors while Sadler goes to turn
the power back on before being attacked
by a raptor and discovering Arnold
severed arm meanwhile Muldoon is caught
off guard and killed by the other two
Raptors grant Tim and Lex finally
reached the visitor center grant heads
out to look for Sattler leaving Tim and
Lex inside Tim and Lex are pursued by
the Raptors in an industrial kitchen but
they escaped and joined grant and Sadler
Lex restores full power from the control
room allowing the group to call Hammond
who in turn calls for help the group is
cornered by the Raptors but they are
able to escape when the Tyrannosaurus
suddenly appears and kills the Raptors
Hammond arrives in a jeep with Malcolm
and the entire group boards a helicopter
to leave the island
[Music]
you